Once upon a time…
in a castle deep in the forest there lived a king and queen
who very much wanted a child. When a baby girl was born
to them they were overjoyed. They held a great christening
party to which they invited all the fairies in the kingdom.
Each fairy gave the new baby a gift. One said that she
would be very beautiful; another said she would be clever,
another that she would be kind, another that she would be
musical, and another that she would have a great sense of
humour. Suddenly the doors flew open and another fairy
came in. Everyone had forgotten about her and she was
very angry.
“How dare you forget to invite me to the christening!” she
hissed. “This is my gift to the baby. On her sixteenth
birthday she will prick her finger on a spinning wheel and
she will die!” She shook her fist, stamped her foot and
disappeared in a cloud of black smoke.
Everyone was very shocked and the queen started to cry.
Then the littlest fairy came forward. She hadn’t yet had a
chance to say what her present to the baby was.
“I don’t have enough power to undo that wicked fairy’s
spell,” she said, “but I can change it so that the princess
won’t die. On her sixteenth birthday she will prick her finger
on a spinning wheel and she will fall asleep for a hundred
years.”
As soon as the party was over the king sent out a
proclamation through the land to say that spinning wheels
were banned. He thought that if his daughter couldn’t find
a spinning wheel she wouldn’t be able to prick her finger.
As the baby princess grew up she became everything the
fairies had promised – beautiful, kind, musical, funny and
everything else. Her real name was Briar Rose, but she was
so lovely that everyone just called her Beauty.
The day of her sixteenth birthday dawned. All her friends
were invited to a party and they decided to play hide and
seek. It was Beauty’s turn to hide and she found herself
exploring a part of the castle she had never seen before.
She opened a little door and there sat an old woman at a
spinning wheel.
“Whatever are you doing?” cried Beauty, for she had never
seen a spinning wheel before.
“I’m spinning, my dear,” said the old woman. “Would you
like to try?”
“Yes please,” said Beauty and she put her hand on the
spinning wheel. But the sharp spindle pricked her finger
and she fell straight away into a deep sleep. The old
woman cackled and disappeared in a cloud of black
smoke.
Beauty’s friends found her and carried her to her bed. As
soon as they laid her down they fell asleep themselves.
Everyone in the castle fell asleep: the king and queen on
their thrones, the cooks in the kitchen, the soldiers at their
guardposts, even the dogs and cats. Gradually a heavy
silence settled over the castle, broken only by a few gentle
snores.
Years passed. Brambles and thorns grew over the castle.
You could only see the very tips of its towers, and then only
if you knew where to look. People almost forgot it was
there. From time to time a prince or knight would try to cut
his way through the forest to see if it was true that a
beautiful princess lay fast asleep in a hidden castle; but the
brambles were too tangled and the thorns were too sharp.
Everyone said the forest was enchanted.
After a hundred years had passed another prince arrived in
the land. He was brave and handsome and he had heard
the story about the sleeping princess. His friends told him
that it was too dangerous to go into the enchanted forest,
but he took no notice. He drew his sword and entered the
forest alone.
It was very quiet. As he slashed at the thorns and brambles
they seemed to draw back to let him pass. Before long he
had reached the middle of the wood and there rose before
him a great castle, its turrets wreathed in mist. Cautiously
he walked up to the gate. Nobody stopped him and he